README.md, before:

# fwi-fe-code-challenge

This is the code challenge for applying to FWI's FE Developer Position.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started and Challenge Information](#getting-started-and-challenge-information)
  - [Cloning and developing](#cloning-and-developing)
  - [Quick Setup](#quick-setup)
  - [Installing Dependencies](#installing-dependencies)
  - [Submitting the code](#submitting-the-code)
  - [Challenge Checklist](#challenge-checklist)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
  - [Get All Players](#get-all-players)
    - [Get All Players (Paginated)](#get-all-players-paginated)
    - [Get All Players (Sorted)](#get-all-players-sorted)
  - [Get a Player](#get-a-player)
  - [Create a Player](#create-a-player)
  - [Update a Player](#update-a-player)
  - [Delete a Player](#delete-a-player)
- [Running both servers simultaneously](#running-both-servers-simultaneously)
- [Client Application](#client)
- [Server Application](#server)

## Getting Started and Challenge Information

This challenge will test your ability to:

- work in an existing code base
- use React, CSS, and redux
- consume/create data from a RESTful API

To make things easier from the get-go, we have provided both a backend RESTful
API as well as a starter front end app using
[create-react-app](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/) and some
default "reasonable" styles.

This app will start with the ability to view every poker player in the database
and list them within a table. Your job will be to update this app so that
players can be added, modified, or deleted using the RESTful API backend we have
provided. The app started with very simplistic styles, so feel free to import
and use any of your favorite libraries or expand upon the current styles to your
liking. If possible, ensure that the FWI branding colors are still used which
can be found in [client/src/\_variables.scss](client/src/_variables.scss).

### Cloning and developing

Applicants should not fork this repository directly; rather, they should
initialize their own repositories and pull this repository's content in:

```
username @ ~/
$ mkdir fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ cd fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ git init
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/USERNAME/fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ git remote add remote-origin https://github.com/fourwindsinteractive/fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ git pull remote-origin master
$ git push origin master
```

The steps above will create an empty git repo, set the origin to your GitHub
code challenge location, then pull the latest code challenge into your repo, and
push it to your GitHub. Once you have done all of this, you should be set to
start the code challenge.

### Quick Setup

After you have cloned the repo, you will need to ensure that [yarn] has been
installed since this project uses yarn for dependency management and the
workspaces feature. Once `yarn` has been installed, you can get up and running
with:

```sh
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

The above commands will install all the dependencies in both the `client` and
`server` folders as well as start up both the client server and the API server
for you.

The `client` app will be using [create-react-app], so anything that is supported
by create-react-app can be used.

### Installing dependencies

This project is using [yarn workspaces] to manage dependencies in both the
`client` and `server` folders so that the `node_modules` folder can be a bit
smaller and a simple way to install dependencies in both directories. Instead of
having to `cd` into both the `client` and `server` folders to install
dependencies, you can now just run `yarn` in the root folder which will
automatically install all required dependencies.

If you would like to install a new dependency for this code challenge, you can
either `cd` into the `client` folder and run `yarn add PACKAGE_NAME` like normal
or use the `yarn workspace` prefix. Check out the example below for more
information and an example of adding the [redux-devtools-extension] to the
`client` app.

```sh
username @ ~/fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ yarn workspace client add redux-devtools-extension
```

Or directly within the `client` folder:

```sh
username @ ~/fwi-fe-code-challenge/client
$ yarn add redux-devtools-extension
```

So packages should still be installed in the `client/package.json` instead of
the root `package.json`.

### Submitting the code

Before submitting your code, make sure that there are no console errors within
your app and everything works as expected. We have also provided a very simple
checklist below for the main features that we are looking for, and you can mark
a task as completed by replacing the space with an `x`:

```diff
- [ ] Create Player
+ [x] Create Player
```

When you are ready, please send an email to your FWI recruiter with a link to
your GitHub repo and any additional instructions for running the project if you
added any additional steps.

### Challenge Checklist

- [ ] Create Player
- [ ] Modify Player
- [ ] Delete Player
- [ ] Implement sorting (optional)
- [ ] Lazy loading/pagination (optional)
- [ ] Tests (optional)

## API Documentation

The player entity will have the following structure:

```ts
import { COUNTRIES } from './constants';

type Guid = string;
type CountryCode = keyof COUNTRIES;

interface Player {
  id: Guid;
  name: string;
  country: CountryCode;
  winnings: number;
  imageUrl: string;
}
```

### Get all players

You can get a list of all the players be sending a `GET` request to `/players`:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db",
      "name": "Freddy Kruger",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
    },
    {
      "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
      "name": "Bob Bobbity",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

#### Get All Players (Paginated)

This endpoint will also support pagination using the `start` and `size` query
parameters:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players?size=24"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 24,
  "total": 1000,
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db",
      "name": "Freddy Kruger",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
    },
    {
      "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
      "name": "Bob Bobbity",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

So if you would like to get the next set of results, you can do:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players?size=24&from=24"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "from": 24,
  "size": 24,
  "total": 1000,
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "0ef94f22-e727-4888-91e3-088be5dbd896",
      "name": "Scott Sterling",
      "country": "UK",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=0ef94f22-e727-4888-91e3-088be5dbd896"
    },
    {
      "id": "4f3b5ce4-2072-47d4-beb8-d46a9a0a8c9f",
      "name": "Stirling Archer",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 9302400,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=4f3b5ce4-2072-47d4-beb8-d46a9a0a8c9f"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

#### Get All Players (Sorted)

This endpoint will also support sorting using the `sortBy` and `sortOrder` query
parameters:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players?sortBy=name&sortOrder=desc"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 24,
  "total": 1000,
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db",
      "name": "Freddy Kruger",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
    },
    {
      "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
      "name": "Bob Bobbity",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

Check out the
[createSortingFunction](./server/src/controllers/PlayersController.js#L42) to
see how the data is sorted and valid `sortBy`/`sortOrder` values.

### Get a player

You can get a single player by sending a `GET` request to `/players/:guid`:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players/70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
  "name": "Bob Bobbity",
  "country": "US",
  "winnings": 93024,
  "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
}
```

### Create a player

To create a player, you can send a `POST` to `/players` with the following data:

```ts
interface Player {
  name: string;
  country: string;
  winnings: number;
  imageUrl?: string;
}
```

The `imageUrl` will be optional as the BE will automatically create a `pravatar`
url for you if omitted. After you create a player and it was successful, you
should get a `201` response as well as a `Location` header pointing to the newly
created player:

```sh
$ curl -d '{ "name": "New Person", "country": "US", "winnings": 1000 }' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -X POST "http://localhost:3001/players"
```

Response:

```sh
201 Created
Location: http://localhost:3001/players/0ef94f22-e727-4888-91e3-088be5dbd896
```

### Update a player

To update a player, you can send a `PATCH` to `/players/:guid` with the updated
data:

```sh
$ curl -d '{ "name": "Example Name" }' \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X PATCH \
    "http://localhost:3001/players/314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
```

### Delete a player

Finally, to delete a player, you can send a `DELETE` to `/players/:guid`:

```sh
$ curl -X DELETE \
    "http://localhost:3001/players/4f3b5ce4-2072-47d4-beb8-d46a9a0a8c9f"
```

## Running both servers simultaneously

If you'd like to run the `client` and `server` apps in one command, you can
change into the root directory and just run:

```sh
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

This will install dependencies in both folders as well as spin up both servers
using `npm-run-all`

## client

```sh
$ cd client
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

The app will be started and available at http://localhost:3000

## server

```sh
$ cd server
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

The API server will be started and available at http://localhost:3001

[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com
[create-react-app]: https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app
[yarn workspaces]: https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/
[redux-devtools-extension]:
  https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension

Commit message:

chore(docker): Updated to also support docker if installing becomes an issue

README.md, after:

# fwi-fe-code-challenge

This is the code challenge for applying to FWI's FE Developer Position.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started and Challenge Information](#getting-started-and-challenge-information)
  - [Cloning and developing](#cloning-and-developing)
  - [Quick Setup](#quick-setup)
  - [Installing Dependencies](#installing-dependencies)
  - [Submitting the code](#submitting-the-code)
  - [Challenge Checklist](#challenge-checklist)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
  - [Get All Players](#get-all-players)
    - [Get All Players (Paginated)](#get-all-players-paginated)
    - [Get All Players (Sorted)](#get-all-players-sorted)
  - [Get a Player](#get-a-player)
  - [Create a Player](#create-a-player)
  - [Update a Player](#update-a-player)
  - [Delete a Player](#delete-a-player)
- [Running both servers simultaneously](#running-both-servers-simultaneously)
- [Client Application](#client)
- [Server Application](#server)

## Getting Started and Challenge Information

This challenge will test your ability to:

- work in an existing code base
- use React, CSS, and redux
- consume/create data from a RESTful API

To make things easier from the get-go, we have provided both a backend RESTful
API as well as a starter front end app using
[create-react-app](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/) and some
default "reasonable" styles.

This app will start with the ability to view every poker player in the database
and list them within a table. Your job will be to update this app so that
players can be added, modified, or deleted using the RESTful API backend we have
provided. The app started with very simplistic styles, so feel free to import
and use any of your favorite libraries or expand upon the current styles to your
liking. If possible, ensure that the FWI branding colors are still used which
can be found in [client/src/\_variables.scss](client/src/_variables.scss).

### Cloning and developing

Applicants should not fork this repository directly; rather, they should
initialize their own repositories and pull this repository's content in:

```
username @ ~/
$ mkdir fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ cd fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ git init
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/USERNAME/fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ git remote add remote-origin https://github.com/fourwindsinteractive/fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ git pull remote-origin master
$ git push origin master
```

The steps above will create an empty git repo, set the origin to your GitHub
code challenge location, then pull the latest code challenge into your repo, and
push it to your GitHub. Once you have done all of this, you should be set to
start the code challenge.

### Quick Setup

#### Without Docker

After you have cloned the repo, you will need to ensure that [yarn] has been
installed since this project uses yarn for dependency management and the
workspaces feature. Once `yarn` has been installed, you can get up and running
with:

```sh
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

The above commands will install all the dependencies in both the `client` and
`server` folders as well as start up both the client server and the API server
for you.

The `client` app will be using [create-react-app], so anything that is supported
by create-react-app can be used.

#### With Docker

If you have docker installed, you can skip the steps above and just run:

```sh
yarn start-docker
```

This will create two containers:

- client - everything in the `./client` folder
- server - everything in the `./server` folder

If you make a change in the `./client/src` folder, those changes will be
reflected and rebuild automatically.

### Installing dependencies

This project is using [yarn workspaces] to manage dependencies in both the
`client` and `server` folders so that the `node_modules` folder can be a bit
smaller and a simple way to install dependencies in both directories. Instead of
having to `cd` into both the `client` and `server` folders to install
dependencies, you can now just run `yarn` in the root folder which will
automatically install all required dependencies.

If you would like to install a new dependency for this code challenge, you can
either `cd` into the `client` folder and run `yarn add PACKAGE_NAME` like normal
or use the `yarn workspace` prefix. Check out the example below for more
information and an example of adding the [redux-devtools-extension] to the
`client` app.

```sh
username @ ~/fwi-fe-code-challenge
$ yarn workspace client add redux-devtools-extension
```

Or directly within the `client` folder:

```sh
username @ ~/fwi-fe-code-challenge/client
$ yarn add redux-devtools-extension
```

So packages should still be installed in the `client/package.json` instead of
the root `package.json`.

> Note: If you are using Docker, you might need to shutdown the containers, run
> `docker-compose build`, and then run `yarn start-docker` after installing new
> dependencies.

### Submitting the code

Before submitting your code, make sure that there are no console errors within
your app and everything works as expected. We have also provided a very simple
checklist below for the main features that we are looking for, and you can mark
a task as completed by replacing the space with an `x`:

```diff
- [ ] Create Player
+ [x] Create Player
```

When you are ready, please send an email to your FWI recruiter with a link to
your GitHub repo and any additional instructions for running the project if you
added any additional steps.

### Challenge Checklist

- [ ] Create Player
- [ ] Modify Player
- [ ] Delete Player
- [ ] Implement sorting (optional)
- [ ] Lazy loading/pagination (optional)
- [ ] Tests (optional)

## API Documentation

The player entity will have the following structure:

```ts
import { COUNTRIES } from './constants';

type Guid = string;
type CountryCode = keyof COUNTRIES;

interface Player {
  id: Guid;
  name: string;
  country: CountryCode;
  winnings: number;
  imageUrl: string;
}
```

### Get all players

You can get a list of all the players be sending a `GET` request to `/players`:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db",
      "name": "Freddy Kruger",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
    },
    {
      "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
      "name": "Bob Bobbity",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

#### Get All Players (Paginated)

This endpoint will also support pagination using the `start` and `size` query
parameters:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players?size=24"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 24,
  "total": 1000,
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db",
      "name": "Freddy Kruger",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
    },
    {
      "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
      "name": "Bob Bobbity",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

So if you would like to get the next set of results, you can do:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players?size=24&from=24"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "from": 24,
  "size": 24,
  "total": 1000,
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "0ef94f22-e727-4888-91e3-088be5dbd896",
      "name": "Scott Sterling",
      "country": "UK",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=0ef94f22-e727-4888-91e3-088be5dbd896"
    },
    {
      "id": "4f3b5ce4-2072-47d4-beb8-d46a9a0a8c9f",
      "name": "Stirling Archer",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 9302400,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=4f3b5ce4-2072-47d4-beb8-d46a9a0a8c9f"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

#### Get All Players (Sorted)

This endpoint will also support sorting using the `sortBy` and `sortOrder` query
parameters:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players?sortBy=name&sortOrder=desc"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "from": 0,
  "size": 24,
  "total": 1000,
  "players": [
    {
      "id": "314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db",
      "name": "Freddy Kruger",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
    },
    {
      "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
      "name": "Bob Bobbity",
      "country": "US",
      "winnings": 93024,
      "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
    }
    // ... other players
  ]
}
```

Check out the
[createSortingFunction](./server/src/controllers/PlayersController.js#L42) to
see how the data is sorted and valid `sortBy`/`sortOrder` values.

### Get a player

You can get a single player by sending a `GET` request to `/players/:guid`:

```sh
$ curl -H "Accept: application/json" \
    "http://localhost:3001/players/70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
```

Response:

```json
{
  "id": "70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a",
  "name": "Bob Bobbity",
  "country": "US",
  "winnings": 93024,
  "imageUrl": "https://i.pravatar.cc/40?u=70629df2-571a-4899-b36a-8f36c909508a"
}
```

### Create a player

To create a player, you can send a `POST` to `/players` with the following data:

```ts
interface Player {
  name: string;
  country: string;
  winnings: number;
  imageUrl?: string;
}
```

The `imageUrl` will be optional as the BE will automatically create a `pravatar`
url for you if omitted. After you create a player and it was successful, you
should get a `201` response as well as a `Location` header pointing to the newly
created player:

```sh
$ curl -d '{ "name": "New Person", "country": "US", "winnings": 1000 }' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -X POST "http://localhost:3001/players"
```

Response:

```sh
201 Created
Location: http://localhost:3001/players/0ef94f22-e727-4888-91e3-088be5dbd896
```

### Update a player

To update a player, you can send a `PATCH` to `/players/:guid` with the updated
data:

```sh
$ curl -d '{ "name": "Example Name" }' \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -X PATCH \
    "http://localhost:3001/players/314c5ab7-ba9b-4821-adba-b4f9d92009db"
```

### Delete a player

Finally, to delete a player, you can send a `DELETE` to `/players/:guid`:

```sh
$ curl -X DELETE \
    "http://localhost:3001/players/4f3b5ce4-2072-47d4-beb8-d46a9a0a8c9f"
```

## Running both servers simultaneously

If you'd like to run the `client` and `server` apps in one command, you can
change into the root directory and just run:

```sh
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

This will install dependencies in both folders as well as spin up both servers
using `npm-run-all`

## client

```sh
$ cd client
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

The app will be started and available at http://localhost:3000

## server

```sh
$ cd server
$ yarn
$ yarn start
```

The API server will be started and available at http://localhost:3001

[yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com
[create-react-app]: https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app
[yarn workspaces]: https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/
[redux-devtools-extension]:
  https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension
